Um, I want you to imagine a scenario for a second.
Picture a situation where you are completely, uh, just 100% in the right about something.
You have the facts on your side.
You have the logic mapped out.
You even have the rule book backing you up.
But what is in the very act of proving how right you are, you actually make yourself entirely wrong.
Man, that is a, uh, that's a deeply uncomfortable paradox to sit with.
Yeah.
It really is.
It completely upends how we normally operate.
Right.
Because we live in a culture that is, frankly, obsessed with personal rights and freedoms.
I mean, the prevailing logic is simple.
If I have the right to do something, and it's technically permissible, then I should just do it.
Absolutely.
And nobody should be allowed to tell me otherwise or, you know, make me feel bad about it.
That is the default setting for almost everyone today.
But today, we're going to challenge that exact mindset.
Welcome to the deep dive.
Our mission today is to unpack a really profound message that was preached this past Sunday at Cross Covenant Chinese Church.
And we're doing this specifically to help our English-speaking listeners grasp the full weight and really the nuance of what was shared.
We're zeroing in on a very specific passage that's Romans chapter 14, verses 20 through 23.
And we are looking at it through the rich lens of Reformed theology.
To really grasp what is happening in this passage.
We have to look at the historical tension first.
Okay, set the stage for us.
Well, the apostle Paul is writing to the early church in Rome, and this was a community that was, they were fracturing, they were clashing heavily over dietary laws.
Like what they could and couldn't eat.
Exactly.
Specifically, what foods were considered clean and what foods were unclean.
You had believers from Jewish backgrounds who still felt deeply bound by centuries old dietary rules, and then you had Gentile believers who felt completely free in Christ to eat whatever was put in front of them.
I mean, we've all been in that church potluck scenario where someone is eyeing the pork dumplings with deep theological suspicion, right?
While someone else is just loading up their plate.
That's a perfect visual.
But this deep dive isn't actually about a menu.
It's not some historical footnote about ancient eating habits.
Paul is using food to ask a much more piercing question.
He's asking, will you treat a fellow believer's spiritual life as precious or?
Or are you willing to treat them as collateral damage just to
Exercise your own personal preferences.
Yes, collateral damage.
That's exactly it.
It is the perfect way to frame it, which really brings us to the staggering urgency of Paul's warning in this passage.
If you look at verse 20, he writes,
destroy the work of God.
If we stop and really look at that, it is an arresting sentence.
He uses the word destroy.
Let me push back on that word for a second because destroy feels incredibly heavy for a disagreement over dinner.
When I hear work of God, I usually think of a physical church building or a massive ministry program or a global mission initiative.
Sure.
How can me eating a pork dumpling or exercising a personal freedom destroy that?
That is the pivotal shift in the sermon from Sunday.
The message clarified.
that the work of God in this specific context isn't an institution or a building at all.
What is it then?
It is the person sitting in the pew right next to you.
It's the human being.
Every single believer in your life is someone God is actively working on.
Oh, wow.
God is shaping them through trials.
He is healing them.
He is sanctifying them.
And he is knitting them into the body of the church.
When you look at a fellow believer, you are looking at a divine construction zone.
It's almost a
It's almost uncomfortable to think about it that way, that I could be perfectly right in my theology, but actively sinning in how I treat you with it.
It forces a massive shift in perspective.
It really does.
Usually when we approach a controversial topic or a gray area, let's modernize it and say it's about whether Christians should consume alcohol or what kind of schooling is best for kids or how we use social media.
Our first question is always, is this allowed?
Right.
Technically, am I permitted to do this?
Yeah, exactly.
But Paul is forcing us to ask a totally different question here.
He wants us to ask, how am I using what is allowed?
Because the action itself might be perfectly fine, but a perfectly clean thing, a completely legitimate action, can become a sinful action when it is handled without love.
Without loves?
Yes.
When it's wielded without care or regard for the soul of the person standing right in front of you, the sin isn't in the object itself.
The sin is in the lack of love from the person demanding their right to use it.
Which brings us to the group Paul identifies as the strong,
And I think we need to validate them right out of the gate here.
We do.
Because the strong believer in this scenario is actually correct.
Theologically they are right.
Paul even agrees with them.
He explicitly says everything is indeed clean.
They aren't just imagining their liberty in Christ.
The freedom they feel is absolutely real.
They have the right theology without a doubt.
But Paul is challenging them on their practice of mature love.
In verse 21 he says,
it is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble.
Notice his phrasing there.
He says, it is good.
Exactly.
He is not laying down a new rigid law.
He isn't saying, okay, nobody can ever drink wine again.
New permanent rule for everyone.
He is describing what mature sacrificial love actually looks like
in practice.
So practically speaking, it means the most Christ-like action you can possibly take is voluntarily laying down a legitimate right.
Yes.
And you aren't laying it down because the right itself is suddenly evil.
You are laying it down because the brother or sister in front of you is simply worth more than your preference.
That is the absolute crux of the argument.
The moment a Christian is most like Christ is when they willingly sacrifice a right they possess
for the sake of someone else's spiritual well-being.
It's not about demanding the room to do whatever you're permitted to do.
It's about gladly making room for someone else to grow.
Well, wait, let's look at what Paul says next, because I think it can be really easily twisted if we aren't careful.
Okay.
In verse 22, he says, like, I'll be super spiritual at church, but I'll do whatever I want in secret.
How does Paul reconcile that?
That is a very common misreading of the text.
Keeping it between yourself and God doesn't mean being secretive, and it certainly doesn't mean living a double life.
What Sunday's sermon emphasized is that you shouldn't turn your personal liberty into a public campaign.
Oh, I see.
You don't need to parade your freedom around or make it a badge of real Christianity to show everyone how spiritually mature and liberated you are.
So it's about not turning your personal liberty into a wedge issue.
Right.
If I have the freedom to, say, watch a certain type of movie or enjoy a certain beverage, I don't need to post it all over social media just to prove a point to the people in my church who are stricter about those things.
I can just enjoy it quietly with Thanksgiving.
Precisely.
Don't go out of your way to create friction with people who have genuine, deeply held scruples about it.
You enjoy that freedom before the Lord.
But we have to urgently clarify the boundaries here.
Because if we aren't careful, someone might listen to this and think, great, my view on everything is just between me and God.
Yeah, that's a dangerous leap.
There is a crucial caveat in the sermon regarding essential versus non-essential matters.
This is perhaps the most important distinction we can make today.
This rule of keeping things between yourself and God applies strictly and exclusively to non-essential, disputable matters.
Strictly non-essentials.
Yes.
It is absolutely not a shelter to hide clear, deliberate sin.
And it is definitely not a permission slip to treat essential gospel truths as mere private opinions.
Right.
You can't say, well, my view on whether I need to repent of my sin or my view on the bodily resurrection of Jesus is just a private matter between me and God, so don't judge me.
Exactly.
Where God has spoken plainly in Scripture about the gospel, about repentance, about basic Christian holiness, those are essentials.
The church must faithfully teach them and believers must obey them.
No compromising there.
None.
Paul is not saying we shouldn't correct anyone about the clear foundational teachings of the Bible.
He is saying don't turn your personal freedom in minor debatable matters into a public battleground.
So in a non-essentials, we don't use our freedom to stir up conflict, but in the essentials, we hold to the truth, we teach it, and we do not compromise.
That distinction protects the church from both endless bickering over trivial things and from sliding into total theological compromise.
And if you can navigate that, the passage points out a really beautiful reality.
It does.
Verse 22 says, But as we move through the text, Paul immediately pivots to the other side of the equation.
He addresses the weak conscience.
And we have to understand what he means by weak here, because it's not an insult.
Work's not a put down.
I know.
It's a description of someone whose conscience is easily wounded, or who feels restricted in areas where Christ has actually given freedom.
Yes.
And verse 23 lays out a very relatable trap.
It says, We've all been there.
We really have.
Imagine you are at a dinner party with people from your church or maybe a small group and everyone is participating in something, maybe having a drink or watching a specific show that you in your gut feel is wrong for you.
But you do it anyway.
You participate because you are embarrassed or you are terrified of being judged as the legalistic one or you just desperately want to fit in.
It's the trap of pressured imitation.
And this raises a profound point about the nature of faith itself.
This is where Sunday's message brought in the perspective of John Calvin, and it is incredibly illuminating.
I loved this part.
Calvin taught that faith is not just a stated theological position.
It's not just a list of beliefs you agree with on paper.
When the sermon brought up Calvin's perspective on this, it really stopped me in my tracks.
Because when we talk about Reformed theology here, we're really leaning into that tradition's heavy emphasis on the fact that
Faith isn't just mental agreement, right?
Correct.
It's the absolute engine for everything we do.
It's the motive behind our daily walk.
That is the critical distinction.
In this framework, faith is the source of our actions.
Therefore, as Paul concludes, whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
Which is a heavy statement.
It is.
If a believer takes an action while their conscience is unsettled, even if the action itself is outwardly harmless or technically permitted by God,
They are not trusting God.
They are violating the light they have personally received.
Let's think about what that looks like on a Tuesday morning at the office.
If I do something, let's say I engage in a type of office banter that I personally feel conviction about just to fit in with my coworkers.
Okay, good example.
Even if the banter isn't technically crossing a line into clear sin, the fact that I believe it's wrong but I do it anyway out of fear of man or peer pressure, that makes it a sin for me.
because it didn't stem from faith.
It stemmed from vanity or fear.
God is not honored by pressured imitation.
No.
He is honored by honest obedience.
When you act against your conscience, you are essentially training yourself to ignore the Holy Spirit's conviction.
Yeah.
But we have to be careful here too, because the instruction for the weak believer
is not to just stay weak forever.
Right.
You don't get to say, well, my conscience is easily bothered by literally everything, so the entire church needs to cater to my endless list of rules for the rest of my life.
Exactly.
The mandate here is to grow.
You must not make peace with your own confusion or your overly sensitive conscience.
The goal for the believer with a weak conscience is to actively sit under the word of God to seek wise counsel and to let their conscience be continually reshaped and recalibrated by Scripture.
Because our consciences aren't perfect.
Our consciences are not infallible at all.
They are shaped by our upbringing, our past traumas, our cultural background.
The goal is to let the Bible reshape that conscience so it aligns more and more with God's actual truth rather than our irrational fears.
That is such an important point.
You want your conscience shaped by the text, not by the loudest voices on social media or the baggage you carried into the church.
Yes.
Taking all this ancient wisdom and dropping it right into our context today,
The message really challenged Cross Covenant Chinese Church on what it means to be a community.
God is not building a club based on shared tastes.
No, he is not.
A social club is gathered around common hobbies, identical political preferences, or similar socioeconomic backgrounds.
Sure.
But God is building a unified people out of incredibly diverse, messy backgrounds.
Therefore, no right, no personal preference, and no disputable matter is worth tearing down God's work in that specific local body.
So if we take Sunday's message to heart, the true measure of spiritual maturity completely shifts.
It's not about how hard you can press your opinions.
It's not about how loudly you can demand your rights or how brilliantly you can win a theological debate in the church lobby on a non-essential issue.
Maturity is measured by how faithfully you protect the unity of the body and the holiness of your neighbor.
It requires a profound dying to self.
Maturity isn't having the most freedom.
maturity is having the wisdom and the love to know exactly when to restrain that freedom for the sake of someone else.
It's keeping Christ at the center rather than our own personal autonomy.
But let's be realistic for a second.
We are going to fail at this.
Constantly.
We are inherently selfish creatures.
We love our rights.
We love being right even more.
So what happens when we inevitably mess this up?
When we prioritize our preference over a brother or sister?
The sermon ended this entire section on a note of deep, profound grace.
When we fail at this, and we will, the response isn't to run and hide in shame, and it certainly isn't to build up a wall of defensiveness and justify our actions.
We run directly to Christ.
We confess our pride quickly, we ask for grace, and we remember who He is.
He is the Lord who died and rose again to purchase the very people that we sometimes find so difficult to love.
That is the ultimate leveling ground, isn't it?
The people in our churches who annoy us with their endless rules, or the people who shock us with their careless freedoms, Christ considered them worth his very life.
He did.
If the creator of the universe didn't despise them, who am I to despise them over a disagreement about a non-essential issue?
Exactly.
He is patient enough to sanctify a church made up of messy, highly opinionated people.
And because of that immense patience, he has shown us we must learn to be patient with one another.
As we bring this deep dive in for a landing, let's do a final summary of the core thesis here.
If you are taking notes or just reflecting on this on your commute, remember this.
In the non-essentials of the faith, love must always walk ahead of liberty.
We are not here to protect our pride.
We are here to protect each other's growth.
We voluntarily lay down our rights so that someone else has the space to stand up and grow.
It is a beautiful, deeply sacrificial way to live, and honestly,
It is the only way to transform a group of self-interested individuals into a true, functioning body.
It really is.
And I want to leave you with a final, provocative thought to mull over as you go about your week.
Think about the modern world we live in right now.
Today, the concept of freedom is almost exclusively defined as my absolute right to do whatever I want, whenever I want, regardless of how it affects anyone else.
Very true.
It is entirely self-centered.
But what if practicing this first century voluntary surrender of our own rights is actually the most radical thing we could possibly do?
How might this quiet loving surrender of our rights be the most counter-cultural witness the church could possibly offer to a society that is literally tearing itself apart over personal rights?
It's a question worth sitting with.
True freedom might just be the power to lay our rights down for the sake of love.
Something to think about.
Thanks for joining us on this deep dive.